Readme.md, before:

# MARS

MARS is a shared-key block cipher, with a block size of 128 bits and a variable key size, ranging from 128 to over 400 bits. It was designed to meet and exceed the requirements for a standard for shared-key encryption in the next few decades. The main theme behind the design of MARS is to get the best security/performance tradeoff by utilizing the strongest tools and techniques available today for designing block ciphers. As a result, MARS provides a very high level of security, combined with much better performance than other existing ciphers.

## Quick Start

    int main() {
        std::string message =   "MARS - a candidate cipher for AES. "
                                "MARS is a shared-key block cipher, with a block size of 128 bits and "
                                "a variable key size, ranging from 128 to over 400 bits.";
        ...
    }

Variable "message" assign the message you want to encode. As a result of the program, you will receive a randomly generated key, ciphertext with the distribution of "0" and "1", a decoded message and correlation coefficient for the input and output flow of the algorithm:

    Original: MARS - a candidate cipher for AES. MARS is a shared-key block cipher, with a block size of 128 bits and a variable key size, ranging from 128 to over 400 bits.
    Key: 1287413327 504862387 152522607 782537283 907780779 1590089769 1842987796 1456145547 454841597 1199799222 1149427744 1606081808 865661574 87959568

    Ciphertext: ?X��M�t��9�t)���K^�P�fC6)�������o �.zm0s�oOcS�}�*��W��e�Ť&X�999zhpW�!�ωINY����ʻi�%l��R��,H���7�.�z m.z?{�U�@�����.<E�a�&�X��*�qA%�Wp��O�sA
    Number of zeros: 633 49.4531%
    Number of units: 647 50.5469%

    Plaintext: MARS - a candidate cipher for AES. MARS is a shared-key block cipher, with a block size of 128 bits and a variable key size, ranging from 128 to over 400 bits.
    Corrcoef: 0.0129283

If you want to enter your key, replace the line in main:

    int main() {
        ...
        auto key = mars.getRandomKey();
        ...
    }

The key must be between 4 and 14 32-bit words, for example:

    int main() {
        ...
        std::vector<DWORD> key = {1, 2, 3, 4};
        ...
    }

## References
- [MARS - a candidate cipher for AES](http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.35.5604&rep=rep1&type=pdf).
  Carolynn Burwick, Don Coppersmith, Edward D’Avignon, Rosario Gennaro, Shai Halevi, Charanjit Jutla, Stephen M. Matyas Jr., Luke O’Connor, Mohammad Peyravian, David Safford, Nevenko Zunic. IBM Corporation. Revised, September, 22 1999

Commit message:

Add mod 32.  Added files. The algorithm is fully working.
* Work with files

* add mod

* Fixed an error in the algorithm

* Added files. The algorithm is fully working.

Readme.md, after:

# MARS

MARS is a shared-key block cipher, with a block size of 128 bits and a variable key size, ranging from 128 to over 400 bits. It was designed to meet and exceed the requirements for a standard for shared-key encryption in the next few decades. The main theme behind the design of MARS is to get the best security/performance tradeoff by utilizing the strongest tools and techniques available today for designing block ciphers. As a result, MARS provides a very high level of security, combined with much better performance than other existing ciphers.

## Quick Start

    int main() {
        std::string filePath = "Files/image.bmp";
        ...
    }

The variable “filePath” stores the path to the file you want to encode. As a result of the program, you will receive a randomly generated key, a encrypted file and its distribution “0” and “1”, a decoded file and [correlation coefficient] (https://www.socscistatistics.com/tests/pearson /) for input and output flow algorithm:

    Key: 3260612125 272058955 999978797 1531222562 3216983359 4229743952 1255236363 1409535726 3705650868 2625221404 69201554 2588950460 2859282161 3395239520

    Ciphertext
    Number of zeros: 3146661 50.0047%
    Number of units: 3146075 49.9953%

    Corrcoef: 9.55003e-06

    "Files/image.bmp" - original file.
    "Files/image_encrypt.bmp" - encrypted file.
    "Files/image_encrypt_decrypt.bmp" - decrypted file.


If you want to enter your key, replace the line in main:

    int main() {
        ...
        auto key = mars.getRandomKey();
        ...
    }

The key must be between 4 and 14 32-bit words, for example:

    int main() {
        ...
        std::vector<unsigned> key = {1, 2, 3, 4};
        ...
    }

## References
- [MARS - a candidate cipher for AES](http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.35.5604&rep=rep1&type=pdf).
  Carolynn Burwick, Don Coppersmith, Edward D’Avignon, Rosario Gennaro, Shai Halevi, Charanjit Jutla, Stephen M. Matyas Jr., Luke O’Connor, Mohammad Peyravian, David Safford, Nevenko Zunic. IBM Corporation. Revised, September, 22 1999
